@250418-5-1311

During analysing the code-rain I realised that the guys in the movie were also staring it for the same reason:
to figure it out HOW THE F*CK IT WORX!
Meanwhile they practiced this tongue twister, saying it 150 wpm: "Matrix screensaver!"

A glitch catch: The 3 main monitors on the deck of Nebuchadnezzar show the exact same code rain.
Sitting there, Tank could've said 'Déjà vu!' 60 times an hour...

The middle monitor size in terms of character locations: 60x30. Since they show the same, I suppose the other two also have these dimensions.

This is according to the animations shown on CRT monitors in Matrix I.

Let's expand the observations to gain a more general comprehension which can explain some strange happenings as well!

A proper and dedicated terminology is indispensable:

Igniter drop
Extinguisher drop
Twin drops
Trail
Rain space
Screen space
Character location
Blind characters
Dynamic characters
Static characters
Standalone characters
Changing static characters
X-glitch
Drop fluctuation
Drop birth
Drop death
Excitement levels / States

> There's an "igniter drop", and an "extinguisher drop".
> Both can born and die somewhere in the rain space.
> "Rain space" is far bigger than the "screen space". We can only observe a small portion of the rain space through the screen. Thus it makes sense to use multiple monitors.
> The animation is blocky. The characters aren't refreshed one by one. The whole screen is refreshed frame by frame.
> There are character locations what are blank / burnt out and never show the code. These can form longer columns. This is a mask in screen space and doesn't bother in rain space.
> There's only one layer. No multiple rain layers in the background.
> All drops have the same fall speed.
> Let fall speed be 1 character per frame.
> Changes in character location state happens with slight transition due to the inertia of the phosphor excitement.
> Drops can often fall in pairs. I call them twins. But they are not connected. One can die independently from the other.
> After the igniter drop the glow disappears in 4 characters. The trail's 4th character doesn't glow at all.
> The extinguisher drop in effect is virtually the 2nd character from the trail's end. The trail fades to black in 2 characters. Putting it another way: a character location fades to black in 3 frames.
> Any character space can have two behaviours: changing and non-changing.
> Let 66% of the character locations be non-changing.
> Standalone character locations rarely can be ignited at random places.
> Very rarely can happen that a non-changing character changes, even so it keeps the non-changing state.
> Let's suppose: The random ignition of character locations changes also the static character (except the case when the randomly generated ignited character is the same as the preceding one) without a glow-up.
> Let's suppose: There is random extinguishion as well.

> The change property is basically fixed per character location. Falling drops cannot change it.
> Let's suppose: the occasional drops can cause character change. Let both type be able to do this.
> The igniter drop can jump to the neighbouring row occasionally and jump back after 1 character place immediately.
> Let's suppose: The extinguisher drop can jump to the neighbouring row occasionally as well.
> Because of this jumping the drops' movement has to be simulated 1-1 columns offscreen.
> Because of this behaviour unignited or unextinguished characters can be left behind.
> Blank space is also amongst the randomizable characters.

> I define 7 levels of phosphor excitement of the CRT screen for this animation:
 > 6: Glowing drop character
 > 5: Fading glow level 1.
 > 4: Fading glow level 2.
 > 3: Normal character appearance
 > 2: Fading character level 1.
 > 1: Fading character level 2.
 > 0: Blank (black)

> If an igniter drop touches a character location, ignition happens in state 0 (blank), 1 or 2 (fading because of extinguishion), and it turns into state 6. Any other states remain unaffected.
> A state 6 character location turns into state 5.
> A state 5 character location turns into state 4.
> A state 4 character location turns into state 3 and stays there until touched by extinguisher drops.
> If an extinguisher drop reaches a character location in state 3 to 6, it pushes that to state 2. The other states remain unaffected.
> A state 2 character location turns into state 1.
> A state 1 character location turns into state 0 and stays there until touched by igniter drops.

> For proper animation randomness has to be smartly handled.

Questions:
> Is there an observable standalone dynamic character?

If you find a bug in the animation - it's not my fault. It is a bug in the Matrix.

Stare it with love!
I've put lots of chicks inside there 🙂

